Title: Constructive Critisism Goes a Long Way
Date: April 12, 2012

Yay, I found this blog again...ok well actually, I have been on a writing hiatus and have recently come 
only to yell at the Philladelphians. Yes, you guessed it, those "crasser than myself" general (most, not al) 
pain-in-the-neck "Soul fans" have gone and sullied up teh interwebz with what can only be considered hippy, limp 
wristed drivel.

Pam, from [Pam the Webivore][0] decided that it would be her mission...no, her sole duty to attack a fellow ruby 
nerd (Yehuda Katz) by getting "flustered" and damning him on Hacker News today. Please, for the love of all that 
is good and smells like wet trash in Philly, refrain from using the word flustered outside of people's interactions 
with [albatrosses][1]. According to Pam, which is frankly a much better name for her blog, Yehuda steamrolled 
someone at a local users group.

Pam made this interaction out to be some kind of barage of sorts, ending with the speaker sitting down because 
they couldn't handle the cricriticism coming from Yehuda. Pam and her Philly-isoms continue to barrate and even 
threaten Yehuda for a few more paragraphs. Some might be thinking,  why is Pam and her otherwise lame named blog 
such a big deal?

People should call you out when your "shit"(Philladelphianism) could use some improvement. Why let people go through 
life thinking their stuff is amazing when a few pieces of critisim could help them tremendously? We have become a 
nation of rabbid sycophants and where has it gotten us? This [itis][3] doesen't affect all of us though. For example, this 
week's [Founder's talk][2] introduced me to Steve Espinosa who feels much the same as I do on this very fact.

###A Challenge

The next time a friend shows you a design, app, idea, etc and they are missing something, tell them. Seriously! Don't 
be afraid to ruffle some feathers, complain, call out the haters, live up to your expectaions, deny something, 
whatever! Please, please, don't passively polish shit.

Also although there might be a hearty portion of Philly jabs in this post, I actually quite adore the city, just 
not so much Pam.



[0]: http://thewebivore.com/why-you-shouldnt-invite-yehuda-katz-to-your-u
[1]: http://youtu.be/-JFfN5pKzFU
[2]: http://5by5.tv/founderstalk/35
[3]: http://www.the-joke-box.com/pictures/tomahawk-utility-belt.jpg
